docs/modules/policies/pages/index.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Cerbos policies

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


There are four kinds of Cerbos policies:

xref:derived_roles.adoc[Derived roles]:: Traditional RBAC roles are usually broad groupings with no context awareness. Derived roles are a way of augmenting those broad roles with contextual data to provide more fine-grained control at runtime. For example, a person with the broad `manager` role can be augmented to `manager_of_scranton_branch` by taking into account the geographic location (or another factor) and giving that derived role bearer extra privileges on resources that belong to the Scranton branch.
xref:resource_policies.adoc[Resource policies]:: Defines rules for actions that can be performed on a given resource. A resource is an application-specific concept that applies to anything that requires access rules. For example, in an HR application, a resource can be as coarse-grained as a full employee record or as fine-grained as a single field in the record.
xref:principal_policies.adoc[Principal policies]:: Defines overrides for a specific user.
xref:variables.adoc#export[Exported variables]:: Defines variables to be reused in condition expressions in other policies.


Policies are evaluated based on the metadata passed in the request to the Cerbos PDP. See xref:api:index.adoc[Cerbos API] for more information.

NOTE: View the latest documentation and example requests by accessing a running Cerbos instance using a browser (http://localhost:3592/). The OpenAPI (Swagger) schema can be obtained by accessing `{cerbos-openapi-schema}` as well.

Commit message:

docs: Add role policies sections
Signed-off-by: Sam Lock <sam@swlock.co.uk>

docs/modules/policies/pages/index.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Cerbos policies

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


There are five kinds of Cerbos policies:

xref:derived_roles.adoc[Derived roles]:: Traditional RBAC roles are usually broad groupings with no context awareness. Derived roles are a way of augmenting those broad roles with contextual data to provide more fine-grained control at runtime. For example, a person with the broad `manager` role can be augmented to `manager_of_scranton_branch` by taking into account the geographic location (or another factor) and giving that derived role bearer extra privileges on resources that belong to the Scranton branch.
xref:resource_policies.adoc[Resource policies]:: Defines rules for actions that can be performed on a given resource. A resource is an application-specific concept that applies to anything that requires access rules. For example, in an HR application, a resource can be as coarse-grained as a full employee record or as fine-grained as a single field in the record.
xref:principal_policies.adoc[Principal policies]:: Defines overrides for a specific user.
xref:role_policies.adoc[Role policies]:: Define rules specific to a given role. Rules are defined as a list of permissible actions that apply to a particular resource. Role policies are evaluated before resource policies but don't guarantee an `ALLOW` in the case of a matching rule -- resource policies must also resolve to an `ALLOW` for the same request. Follow the link for a more detailed description.
xref:variables.adoc#export[Exported variables]:: Defines variables to be reused in condition expressions in other policies.


Policies are evaluated based on the metadata passed in the request to the Cerbos PDP. See xref:api:index.adoc[Cerbos API] for more information.

NOTE: View the latest documentation and example requests by accessing a running Cerbos instance using a browser (http://localhost:3592/). The OpenAPI (Swagger) schema can be obtained by accessing `{cerbos-openapi-schema}` as well.
