docs/modules/configuration/pages/engine.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Engine block

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


[#default_policy_version]
== Default policy version

xref:policies:index.adoc[Cerbos policies] have a `version` field to support use cases such as having different policies for different environments (production, staging etc.) or for gradual rollout of a new version of an application. By default, when a request does not explicitly specify the policy version, the Cerbos engine attempts to find a matching policy that has its version set to `default`. You can change this fallback value by setting the `defaultPolicyVersion`. For example, if you have a Cerbos deployment for your staging environment, you may want to set `defaultPolicyVersion: staging` to ensure that the default policies in effect are the ones versioned as `staging`.


[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  defaultPolicyVersion: "default"
----

[#globals]
== Globals

Global variables are a way to pass environment-specific information to xref:policies:conditions.adoc[policy conditions]. For example, you might want to grant additional permissions to a role in your staging environment, without creating separate policy versions for different environments.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  globals:
    environment: "staging"
----

Values set in `globals` can then be referenced in policy conditions:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
rules:
  - actions:
      - view
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - developer
    condition:
      match:
        expr: globals.environment != "production"
----

As with other configuration settings, environment variables can be used to set global values.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  globals:
    environment: ${CERBOS_ENVIRONMENT:development}
----

[#lenient_scopes]
== Lenient scope search

When working with xref:policies:scoped_policies.adoc[scopes], the default behaviour of the Cerbos engine is to expect that a policy file exists for the requested scope. For example, if the API request defines `a.b.c` as the `scope`, a policy file _must exist_ in the policy repository with the `a.b.c` scope. This behaviour can be overridden by setting `lenientScopeSearch` configuration to `true`. When lenient scope search is enabled, if a policy with scope `a.b.c` does not exist in the store, Cerbos will attempt to find scopes `a.b`, `a` and `` in that order.

NOTE: This setting only affects how Cerbos treats missing leaf scopes when searching for policies. The policies stored in your policy store _must_ have unbroken scope chains (for example, if you have a scoped policy `a.b.c` in the store, the policy files for scopes `a.b`, `a` and `` must also exist).


[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  lenientScopeSearch: true
----

Commit message:

Add default scope configuration to be used when scope is not specified in the request (#2843)
Signed-off-by: Oğuzhan Durgun <oguzhandurgun95@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Charith Ellawala <charithe@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/configuration/pages/engine.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Engine block

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


[#default_policy_version]
== Default policy version

xref:policies:index.adoc[Cerbos policies] have a `version` field to support use cases such as having different policies for different environments (production, staging etc.) or for gradual rollout of a new version of an application. By default, when a request does not explicitly specify the policy version, the Cerbos engine attempts to find a matching policy that has its version set to `default`. You can change this fallback value by setting the `defaultPolicyVersion`. For example, if you have a Cerbos deployment for your staging environment, you may want to set `defaultPolicyVersion: staging` to ensure that the default policies in effect are the ones versioned as `staging`.


[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  defaultPolicyVersion: "default"
----

[#default_scope]
== Default scope

xref:policies:index.adoc[Cerbos policies] have a `scope` field to support a way to model hierarchical relationships that regularly occur in many situations.
By default, when a request does not explicitly specify the scope, the Cerbos engine attempts to find a matching policy that has its scope set to `""`.
You can change this fallback value by setting the `defaultScope`.
For example, you may set the default scope to `acme` with `defaultScope: acme` which will take effect when the request does not explicitly specify `scope` field.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  defaultScope: "acme"
----

[#globals]
== Globals

Global variables are a way to pass environment-specific information to xref:policies:conditions.adoc[policy conditions]. For example, you might want to grant additional permissions to a role in your staging environment, without creating separate policy versions for different environments.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  globals:
    environment: "staging"
----

Values set in `globals` can then be referenced in policy conditions:

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
rules:
  - actions:
      - view
    effect: EFFECT_ALLOW
    roles:
      - developer
    condition:
      match:
        expr: globals.environment != "production"
----

As with other configuration settings, environment variables can be used to set global values.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  globals:
    environment: ${CERBOS_ENVIRONMENT:development}
----

[#lenient_scopes]
== Lenient scope search

When working with xref:policies:scoped_policies.adoc[scopes], the default behaviour of the Cerbos engine is to expect that a policy file exists for the requested scope. For example, if the API request defines `a.b.c` as the `scope`, a policy file _must exist_ in the policy repository with the `a.b.c` scope. This behaviour can be overridden by setting `lenientScopeSearch` configuration to `true`. When lenient scope search is enabled, if a policy with scope `a.b.c` does not exist in the store, Cerbos will attempt to find scopes `a.b`, `a` and `` in that order.

NOTE: This setting only affects how Cerbos treats missing leaf scopes when searching for policies. The policies stored in your policy store _must_ have unbroken scope chains (for example, if you have a scoped policy `a.b.c` in the store, the policy files for scopes `a.b`, `a` and `` must also exist).


[source,yaml,linenums]
----
engine:
  lenientScopeSearch: true
----
