docs/modules/cli/pages/cerbosctl.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= `cerbosctl`
:page-aliases: ctl.adoc

This utility can be downloaded as a separate container or a tar archive. It is automatically installed when installing Cerbos through xref:ROOT:installation/binary.adoc#linux-packages[Linux packages or the Homebrew tap].


.Run from the container
[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker run -it {cerbosctl-docker-img} \
    --server=192.168.1.10:3593 \
    --username=user \
    --password=password \
    get rp
----

.Download and run the appropriate binary from {app-github-releases-page}
[caption=]
[%header,cols=".^1,.^1,3m",grid=rows]
|===
|OS | Arch | Bundle
|Linux | x86-64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz
|Linux | arm64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Linux_arm64.tar.gz
|MacOS | universal | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_all.tar.gz
|MacOS | x86-64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_x86_64.tar.gz
|MacOS | arm64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_arm64.tar.gz
|===


Cerbosctl requires the xref:configuration:server.adoc#admin-api[Admin API to be enabled] on the Cerbos server.

The server address to connect to and the credentials to authenticate can be provided through environment variables or as arguments to the command.

[source]
----
Usage: cerbosctl <command>

A CLI for managing Cerbos

Flags:
  -h, --help                       Show context-sensitive help.
      --server="localhost:3593"    Address of the Cerbos server ($CERBOS_SERVER)
      --username=STRING            Admin username ($CERBOS_USERNAME)
      --password=STRING            Admin password ($CERBOS_PASSWORD)
      --ca-cert=STRING             Path to the CA certificate for verifying server identity
      --client-cert=STRING         Path to the TLS client certificate
      --client-key=STRING          Path to the TLS client key
      --insecure                   Skip validating server certificate
      --plaintext                  Use plaintext protocol without TLS

Commands:
  get derived_roles (derived_role,dr) [<id> ...]

  get export_variables (ev) [<id> ...]

  get principal_policies (principal_policy,pp) [<id> ...]

  get resource_policies (resource_policy,rp) [<id> ...]

  get schemas (schema,s) [<id> ...]

  store export (e) <path>

  store reload (r)

  delete schema (schemas,s) <id> ...

  disable policy (policies,p) <id> ...

  enable policy (policies,p) <id> ...

  put policy (policies,p) <paths> ...

  put schema (schemas,s) <paths> ...

  decisions
    Interactive decision log viewer

  audit
    View audit logs

  version
    Show cerbosctl and PDP version

Run "cerbosctl <command> --help" for more information on a command.
----


[#audit]
== `audit`

This command allows you to view the audit logs captured by the Cerbos server. xref:configuration:audit.adoc[Audit logging] must be enabled on the server to obtain the data through this command.

[#audit-filters]
.Filters
****

tail:: Get the last N records (e.g. `--tail=10`)
between:: Get records between two ISO-8601 timestamps. If the last timestamp is left out, get records from the first timestamp up to now.
+
- `--between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z,2021-07-02T00:00:00Z`: From midnight of 2021-07-01 to midnight of 2021-07-02.
- `--between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z`: From midnight of 2021-07-01 to now.

since:: Get records from N hours/minutes/second ago to now. (e.g. `--since=3h`)
lookup:: Get a specific record by ID. (e.g. `--lookup=01F9Y5MFYTX7Y87A30CTJ2FB0S`)

****

.View the last 10 access logs
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --tail=10
----

.View the decision logs from midnight 2021-07-01 to midnight 2021-07-02
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=decision --between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z,2021-07-02T00:00:00Z
----

.View the decision logs from midnight 2021-07-01 to now
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=decision --between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z
----

.View the access logs from 3 hours ago to now as newline-delimited JSON
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --since=3h --raw
----

.View a specific access log entry by call ID
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --lookup=01F9Y5MFYTX7Y87A30CTJ2FB0S
----


[#decisions]
== `decisions`

This command starts an interactive text user interface to view and analyze the decision records captured by the Cerbos server. It accepts the same xref:#audit-filters[filter flags] as the `audit` command.


image:decisions-tui.png[alt="Decisions",role="center-img"]

- kbd:[tab] Switch focus to different panes in the UI
- kbd:[esc] Close window (or exit if you are in the main screen)
- kbd:[q] Exit

Use the arrow keys (or Vim keys kbd:[h], kbd:[j], kbd:[k], kbd:[l]) to scroll horizontally or vertically. Press kbd:[enter] to select/open an item.


.Start analyzing the last 20 decision records
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl decisions --tail=20
----

[#delete]
== `delete`

This command deletes the schemas with the specified ids.

.Delete schemas
----
cerbosctl delete schemas principal.json
cerbosctl delete schema principal.json
cerbosctl delete s principal.json
----

.Delete multiple schemas
----
cerbosctl delete schemas principal.json leave_request.json
cerbosctl delete schema principal.json leave_request.json
cerbosctl delete s principal.json leave_request.json
----

[#disable]
== `disable`

This command disables the policies with the specified ids.

.Disable policies
----
cerbosctl disable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl disable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl disable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles
----

.Disable multiple policies
----
cerbosctl disable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl disable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl disable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
----

CAUTION: Scoped policies must have unbroken scope chains. If you're disabling a scoped policy, make sure that its descendant policies are disabled as well.

[#enable]
== `enable`

This command enables the policies with the specified ids.

.Enable policies
----
cerbosctl enable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl enable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl enable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles
----

.Enable multiple policies
----
cerbosctl enable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl enable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl enable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
----

[#get]
== `get`

This command lists the policies available in the configured policy repository.
You can also retrieve individual policies or schemas by their identifiers and view their definitions as YAML or JSON.

You can filter the output using the `name` and `version` flags. Each flag accepts multiple comma-separated values which are OR'ed together. For example, `--name=a.yaml,b.yaml` matches policies that are either named `a.yaml` or `b.yaml`.

Separately, you can filter the output using the `name-regexp`, `version-regexp` and `scope-regexp` flags. Each flag accepts a regular expression string. These are separate from the `name` and `version` flags above, and cannot be used with their respective counterparts.

You can include disabled policies in the results by adding `--include-disabled` flag.

.List derived roles
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles
cerbosctl get derived_role
cerbosctl get dr
----

.List principal policies
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies
cerbosctl get principal_policy
cerbosctl get pp
----

.List resource policies
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies
cerbosctl get resource_policy
cerbosctl get rp
----

.List derived_roles where `name` is `my_policy` or `a_policy`
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --name my_policy,a_policy
cerbosctl get dr --name my_policy,a_policy
----

.List derived_roles where `name` is `my_policy` or `a_policy`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --name-regexp "^(my|a)_policy\$"
cerbosctl get dr --name-regexp "^(my|a)_policy\$"
----

.List principal_policies where `version` is `default` or `v1`
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --version default,v1
cerbosctl get pp --version default,v1
----

.List principal_policies where `version` is `default` or `v1`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --version-regexp "(default|v1)"
cerbosctl get pp --version-regexp "(default|v1)"
----

.List resource_policies where `scope` includes the substring `foo`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies --scope-regexp foo
cerbosctl get rp --scope-regexp foo
----

.List derived_roles and sort by column `policyId` or `name`
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get dr --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get derived_roles --sort-by name
cerbosctl get dr --sort-by name
----

.List principal_policies and sort by column `policyId`, `name` or `version`
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by name
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by name

cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by version
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by version
----

.List resource_policies and sort by column `policyId`, `name` or `version`
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by name
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by name

cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by version
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by version
----

.Get JSON
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles my_derived_roles --output=json
----

.Get YAML
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles my_derived_roles --output=yaml
----

[#put]
== `put`

This command puts the given policies or schemas to the configured policy repository.

.Put policies
----
cerbosctl put policies ./path/to/policy.yaml
cerbosctl put policy ./path/to/policy.yaml
cerbosctl put p ./path/to/policy.yaml
----

.Put multiple policies
----
cerbosctl put policy ./path/to/policy.yaml ./path/to/other/policy.yaml
----

.Put policies under a directory
----
cerbosctl put policy ./dir/to/policies ./other/dir/to/policies
----

.Put policies under a directory recursively
----
cerbosctl put policy --recursive ./dir/to/policies
cerbosctl put policy -R ./dir/to/policies
----

.Put policies from a zip file
----
cerbosctl put policy ./dir/to/policies.zip
----

.Put schemas
----
cerbosctl put schemas ./path/to/schema.json
cerbosctl put schema ./path/to/schema.json
cerbosctl put s ./path/to/schema.json
----

.Put multiple schemas
----
cerbosctl put schema ./path/to/schema.json ./path/to/other/schema.json
----

.Put schemas under a directory
----
cerbosctl put schema ./dir/to/schemas ./other/dir/to/schemas
----

.Put schemas under a directory recursively
----
cerbosctl put schema --recursive ./dir/to/schemas
cerbosctl put schema -R ./dir/to/schemas
----

.Put schemas from a zip file
----
cerbosctl put schema ./dir/to/schemas.zip
----

[#store]
== `store`

Trigger operations on the policy store of the PDP

[#export]
=== `export`

Exports the policies and schemas from the store into a directory.

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a directory
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/dir
----

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a zip archive
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.zip
----

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a gzip archive
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.gzip
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.tar.gz
----

[#reload]
=== `reload`

Reloads the store.

.Reload the store
----
cerbosctl store reload
----

.Reload the store and wait until it finishes
----
cerbosctl store reload --wait`
----

Commit message:

Fix top-level `cerbosctl` help
Signed-off-by: Andrew Haines <haines@cerbos.dev>

docs/modules/cli/pages/cerbosctl.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= `cerbosctl`
:page-aliases: ctl.adoc

This utility can be downloaded as a separate container or a tar archive. It is automatically installed when installing Cerbos through xref:ROOT:installation/binary.adoc#linux-packages[Linux packages or the Homebrew tap].


.Run from the container
[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
docker run -it {cerbosctl-docker-img} \
    --server=192.168.1.10:3593 \
    --username=user \
    --password=password \
    get rp
----

.Download and run the appropriate binary from {app-github-releases-page}
[caption=]
[%header,cols=".^1,.^1,3m",grid=rows]
|===
|OS | Arch | Bundle
|Linux | x86-64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz
|Linux | arm64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Linux_arm64.tar.gz
|MacOS | universal | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_all.tar.gz
|MacOS | x86-64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_x86_64.tar.gz
|MacOS | arm64 | cerbosctl_{app-version}_Darwin_arm64.tar.gz
|===


Cerbosctl requires the xref:configuration:server.adoc#admin-api[Admin API to be enabled] on the Cerbos server.

The server address to connect to and the credentials to authenticate can be provided through environment variables or as arguments to the command.

[source]
----
Usage: cerbosctl <command>

A CLI for managing Cerbos

The Cerbos Admin API must be enabled in order for these commands to work.
The Admin API requires credentials. They can be provided using a netrc file,
environment variables or command-line arguments.

Environment variables

  - CERBOS_SERVER: gRPC address of the Cerbos server
  - CERBOS_USERNAME: Admin username
  - CERBOS_PASSWORD: Admin password

When more than one method is used to provide credentials, the precedence from
lowest to highest is: netrc < environment < command line.

Examples

    # Connect to a TLS enabled server while skipping certificate verification and launch the decisions viewer
    cerbosctl --server=localhost:3593 --username=user --password=password --insecure decisions

    # Connect to a non-TLS server and launch the decisions viewer
    cerbosctl --server=localhost:3593 --username=user --password=password --plaintext decisions

Flags:
  -h, --help                       Show context-sensitive help.
      --server="localhost:3593"    Address of the Cerbos server ($CERBOS_SERVER)
      --username=STRING            Admin username ($CERBOS_USERNAME)
      --password=STRING            Admin password ($CERBOS_PASSWORD)
      --ca-cert=STRING             Path to the CA certificate for verifying server identity
      --client-cert=STRING         Path to the TLS client certificate
      --client-key=STRING          Path to the TLS client key
      --insecure                   Skip validating server certificate
      --plaintext                  Use plaintext protocol without TLS

Commands:
  get derived_roles (derived_role,dr) [<id> ...]

  get export_variables (ev) [<id> ...]

  get principal_policies (principal_policy,pp) [<id> ...]

  get resource_policies (resource_policy,rp) [<id> ...]

  get schemas (schema,s) [<id> ...]

  store export (e) <path>

  store reload (r)

  delete schema (schemas,s) <id> ...

  disable policy (policies,p) <id> ...

  enable policy (policies,p) <id> ...

  put policy (policies,p) <paths> ...

  put schema (schemas,s) <paths> ...

  decisions
    Interactive decision log viewer

  audit
    View audit logs

  version
    Show cerbosctl and PDP version

Run "cerbosctl <command> --help" for more information on a command.
----


[#audit]
== `audit`

This command allows you to view the audit logs captured by the Cerbos server. xref:configuration:audit.adoc[Audit logging] must be enabled on the server to obtain the data through this command.

[#audit-filters]
.Filters
****

tail:: Get the last N records (e.g. `--tail=10`)
between:: Get records between two ISO-8601 timestamps. If the last timestamp is left out, get records from the first timestamp up to now.
+
- `--between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z,2021-07-02T00:00:00Z`: From midnight of 2021-07-01 to midnight of 2021-07-02.
- `--between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z`: From midnight of 2021-07-01 to now.

since:: Get records from N hours/minutes/second ago to now. (e.g. `--since=3h`)
lookup:: Get a specific record by ID. (e.g. `--lookup=01F9Y5MFYTX7Y87A30CTJ2FB0S`)

****

.View the last 10 access logs
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --tail=10
----

.View the decision logs from midnight 2021-07-01 to midnight 2021-07-02
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=decision --between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z,2021-07-02T00:00:00Z
----

.View the decision logs from midnight 2021-07-01 to now
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=decision --between=2021-07-01T00:00:00Z
----

.View the access logs from 3 hours ago to now as newline-delimited JSON
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --since=3h --raw
----

.View a specific access log entry by call ID
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl audit --kind=access --lookup=01F9Y5MFYTX7Y87A30CTJ2FB0S
----


[#decisions]
== `decisions`

This command starts an interactive text user interface to view and analyze the decision records captured by the Cerbos server. It accepts the same xref:#audit-filters[filter flags] as the `audit` command.


image:decisions-tui.png[alt="Decisions",role="center-img"]

- kbd:[tab] Switch focus to different panes in the UI
- kbd:[esc] Close window (or exit if you are in the main screen)
- kbd:[q] Exit

Use the arrow keys (or Vim keys kbd:[h], kbd:[j], kbd:[k], kbd:[l]) to scroll horizontally or vertically. Press kbd:[enter] to select/open an item.


.Start analyzing the last 20 decision records
[source,sh]
----
cerbosctl decisions --tail=20
----

[#delete]
== `delete`

This command deletes the schemas with the specified ids.

.Delete schemas
----
cerbosctl delete schemas principal.json
cerbosctl delete schema principal.json
cerbosctl delete s principal.json
----

.Delete multiple schemas
----
cerbosctl delete schemas principal.json leave_request.json
cerbosctl delete schema principal.json leave_request.json
cerbosctl delete s principal.json leave_request.json
----

[#disable]
== `disable`

This command disables the policies with the specified ids.

.Disable policies
----
cerbosctl disable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl disable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl disable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles
----

.Disable multiple policies
----
cerbosctl disable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl disable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl disable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
----

CAUTION: Scoped policies must have unbroken scope chains. If you're disabling a scoped policy, make sure that its descendant policies are disabled as well.

[#enable]
== `enable`

This command enables the policies with the specified ids.

.Enable policies
----
cerbosctl enable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl enable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles
cerbosctl enable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles
----

.Enable multiple policies
----
cerbosctl enable policies derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl enable policy derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
cerbosctl enable p derived_roles.my_derived_roles resource.leave_request.default
----

[#get]
== `get`

This command lists the policies available in the configured policy repository.
You can also retrieve individual policies or schemas by their identifiers and view their definitions as YAML or JSON.

You can filter the output using the `name` and `version` flags. Each flag accepts multiple comma-separated values which are OR'ed together. For example, `--name=a.yaml,b.yaml` matches policies that are either named `a.yaml` or `b.yaml`.

Separately, you can filter the output using the `name-regexp`, `version-regexp` and `scope-regexp` flags. Each flag accepts a regular expression string. These are separate from the `name` and `version` flags above, and cannot be used with their respective counterparts.

You can include disabled policies in the results by adding `--include-disabled` flag.

.List derived roles
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles
cerbosctl get derived_role
cerbosctl get dr
----

.List principal policies
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies
cerbosctl get principal_policy
cerbosctl get pp
----

.List resource policies
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies
cerbosctl get resource_policy
cerbosctl get rp
----

.List derived_roles where `name` is `my_policy` or `a_policy`
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --name my_policy,a_policy
cerbosctl get dr --name my_policy,a_policy
----

.List derived_roles where `name` is `my_policy` or `a_policy`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --name-regexp "^(my|a)_policy\$"
cerbosctl get dr --name-regexp "^(my|a)_policy\$"
----

.List principal_policies where `version` is `default` or `v1`
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --version default,v1
cerbosctl get pp --version default,v1
----

.List principal_policies where `version` is `default` or `v1`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --version-regexp "(default|v1)"
cerbosctl get pp --version-regexp "(default|v1)"
----

.List resource_policies where `scope` includes the substring `foo`, using regular expression
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies --scope-regexp foo
cerbosctl get rp --scope-regexp foo
----

.List derived_roles and sort by column `policyId` or `name`
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get dr --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get derived_roles --sort-by name
cerbosctl get dr --sort-by name
----

.List principal_policies and sort by column `policyId`, `name` or `version`
----
cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by name
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by name

cerbosctl get principal_policies --sort-by version
cerbosctl get pp --sort-by version
----

.List resource_policies and sort by column `policyId`, `name` or `version`
----
cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by policyId
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by policyId

cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by name
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by name

cerbosctl get resource_policies --sort-by version
cerbosctl get rp --sort-by version
----

.Get JSON
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles my_derived_roles --output=json
----

.Get YAML
----
cerbosctl get derived_roles my_derived_roles --output=yaml
----

[#put]
== `put`

This command puts the given policies or schemas to the configured policy repository.

.Put policies
----
cerbosctl put policies ./path/to/policy.yaml
cerbosctl put policy ./path/to/policy.yaml
cerbosctl put p ./path/to/policy.yaml
----

.Put multiple policies
----
cerbosctl put policy ./path/to/policy.yaml ./path/to/other/policy.yaml
----

.Put policies under a directory
----
cerbosctl put policy ./dir/to/policies ./other/dir/to/policies
----

.Put policies under a directory recursively
----
cerbosctl put policy --recursive ./dir/to/policies
cerbosctl put policy -R ./dir/to/policies
----

.Put policies from a zip file
----
cerbosctl put policy ./dir/to/policies.zip
----

.Put schemas
----
cerbosctl put schemas ./path/to/schema.json
cerbosctl put schema ./path/to/schema.json
cerbosctl put s ./path/to/schema.json
----

.Put multiple schemas
----
cerbosctl put schema ./path/to/schema.json ./path/to/other/schema.json
----

.Put schemas under a directory
----
cerbosctl put schema ./dir/to/schemas ./other/dir/to/schemas
----

.Put schemas under a directory recursively
----
cerbosctl put schema --recursive ./dir/to/schemas
cerbosctl put schema -R ./dir/to/schemas
----

.Put schemas from a zip file
----
cerbosctl put schema ./dir/to/schemas.zip
----

[#store]
== `store`

Trigger operations on the policy store of the PDP

[#export]
=== `export`

Exports the policies and schemas from the store into a directory.

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a directory
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/dir
----

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a zip archive
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.zip
----

.Export policies and schemas from the store into a gzip archive
----
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.gzip
cerbosctl store export path/to/archive.tar.gz
----

[#reload]
=== `reload`

Reloads the store.

.Reload the store
----
cerbosctl store reload
----

.Reload the store and wait until it finishes
----
cerbosctl store reload --wait`
----
