docs/modules/ROOT/partials/attributes.adoc, before:

:app-version: {page-component-display-version}
:app-alternative-docker-img: docker.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}
:app-container-registry: ghcr.io
:app-docker-img: {app-container-registry}/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}
:app-github-url: https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos
:app-github-download-page: {app-github-url}/releases/download/v{app-version}
:app-github-releases-page: {app-github-url}/releases/tag/v{app-version}
:app-helm-chart-repo: https://download.cerbos.dev/helm-charts
:app-schema-url-current: https://api.cerbos.dev/v{app-version}/cerbos
:app-schema-url-latest: https://api.cerbos.dev/latest/cerbos
:cerbos-openapi-schema: /schema/swagger.json
:cerbosctl-docker-img: {app-container-registry}/cerbos/cerbosctl:{app-version}
:tutorial-base: {app-github-url}/tree/main/docs/modules/ROOT/examples/tutorial

ifndef::page-component-version-is-latest[]
NOTE: This documentation is for a previous version of Cerbos. Choose {page-component-latest-version} from the version picker at the top right or navigate to https://docs.cerbos.dev for the latest version.
endif::[]

Commit message:

docs: Change wording for prerelease caveat (#2029)
Currently, the prerelease docs have a note warning that you're looking
at "a previous version". This changes it to say "an as-yet unreleased
version".

Signed-off-by: Andrew Haines <haines@cerbos.dev>

docs/modules/ROOT/partials/attributes.adoc, after:

:app-version: {page-component-display-version}
:app-alternative-docker-img: docker.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}
:app-container-registry: ghcr.io
:app-docker-img: {app-container-registry}/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}
:app-github-url: https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos
:app-github-download-page: {app-github-url}/releases/download/v{app-version}
:app-github-releases-page: {app-github-url}/releases/tag/v{app-version}
:app-helm-chart-repo: https://download.cerbos.dev/helm-charts
:app-schema-url-current: https://api.cerbos.dev/v{app-version}/cerbos
:app-schema-url-latest: https://api.cerbos.dev/latest/cerbos
:cerbos-openapi-schema: /schema/swagger.json
:cerbosctl-docker-img: {app-container-registry}/cerbos/cerbosctl:{app-version}
:tutorial-base: {app-github-url}/tree/main/docs/modules/ROOT/examples/tutorial

ifndef::page-component-version-is-latest[]
NOTE: This documentation is for
ifeval::["{page-component-version}" > "{page-component-latest-version}"]
an as-yet unreleased
endif::[]
ifeval::["{page-component-version}" < "{page-component-latest-version}"]
a previous
endif::[]
version of Cerbos. Choose {page-component-latest-version} from the version picker at the top right or navigate to https://docs.cerbos.dev for the latest version.
endif::page-component-version-is-latest[]
