docs/modules/deployment/pages/cloud-platforms.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Deploy Cerbos to Cloud platforms

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]

== AWS Marketplace

Cerbos is avaliable via the link:https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6kkahbtwv3gtq[AWS Marketplace] and can be deployed in either link:https://aws.amazon.com/eks/[Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)] or link:https://aws.amazon.com/ecs/[Elastic Container Service (ECS)].

=== Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)

==== Step 1: Create an IAM policy
To deploy Cerbos from AWS Marketplace, you need to assign an IAM policy with appropriate IAM permission to a Kubernetes service account before starting the deployment. You can either use AWS managed policy `arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage` or create your own IAM policy.

Here's an example IAM policy:

[source,json]
----
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Step 2: Create an IAM role for the Kubernetes service account (IRSA)

Once the IAM role has been created, a Kubernetes service account needs to be created and assicated with the role. We recommend doing this via link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eksctl.html[eksctl]. The command below automates the process to:

1. Create an IAM role with AWS-managed IAM policy (or you can provide your own ARN).
2. Create a Kubernetes service account name `cerbos-serviceaccount` in the cluster.
3. Set up a trust relationship between the IAM role and the service account.
4. Modify `cerbos-serviceaccount` annotation to associate it with the created IAM role

Remember to replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with your actual Amazon EKS cluster name and optionally set the namespace.

[source,sh]
----
eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
    --name cerbos-serviceaccount \
    --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage \
    --namespace default \
    --cluster CLUSTER_NAME \
    --approve \
    --override-existing-serviceaccounts
----

==== Step 4: Deploy Cerbos with the service account

include::ROOT:partial$try-cerbos-hub.adoc[]

* Create a new Kubernetes secret to hold the Cerbos Hub credentials
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl create secret generic cerbos-hub-credentials \
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_CLIENT_ID \ <1>
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET \ <2>
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_WORKSPACE_SECRET=YOUR_WORKSPACE_SECRET <3>
----
<1> Client ID from the Cerbos Hub credential
<2> Client secret from the Cerbos Hub credential
<3> Cerbos Hub workspace secret

* Create a new values file named `hub-values.yaml` with the following contents:
+
[source,yaml,linenums,subs="attributes"]
----
# Use the AWS Marketplace image
image:
  repository: {app-aws-registry}

# Assign the service account
serviceAccount:
  name: cerbos-serviceaccount

# Set Cerbos configuration
cerbos:
  config:
    # Configure the Hub storage driver
    storage:
      driver: "hub"
      # Configure deployment label. Alternatively, add `CERBOS_HUB_BUNDLE=<YOUR_LABEL>` to the secret you created above.
      hub:
        remote:
          bundleLabel: "YOUR_LABEL" <1>

    # Configure the Hub audit backend
    audit:
      enabled: true <2>
      backend: "hub"
      hub:
        storagePath: /audit_logs

# Create environment variables from the secret.
envFrom:
  - secretRef:
      name: cerbos-hub-credentials

# Mount volume for locally buffering the audit logs. A persistent volume is recommended for production use cases.
volumes:
  - name: cerbos-audit-logs
    emptyDir: {}

volumeMounts:
  - name: cerbos-audit-logs
    mountPath: /audit_logs
----
<1> The label to watch for bundle updates. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:deployment-labels.adoc[deployment labels documentation] for details.
<2> Enables audit log collection. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:audit-log-collection.adoc[Hub audit log collection documentation] for information about masking sensitive fields and other advanced settings.

* Deploy Cerbos using the Helm chart
+
[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
helm install cerbos cerbos/cerbos --version={app-version} --values=hub-values.yaml
----

=== Elastic Container Service (ECS)

==== Step 1: Create ECS Task Role policy
To deploy Cerbos from AWS Marketplace, you need to create an ECS Task AIM Role with appropriate IAM permission before starting the deployment. You can either use AWS managed policy `arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage` or create your own IAM policy.

Here's an example IAM policy required - you will need the ARN for this role when defining the task.

[source,json]
----
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
          "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Step 2: Create the task definition

In the AWS console or the CLI, create the task using the following JSON definition, subsituting the values noted:

[source,json,subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "family": "cerbos",
  "containerDefinitions": [
    {
      "name": "cerbos",
      "image": "{app-aws-img}",
      "cpu": 0,
      "portMappings": [
        {
          "name": "cerbos-3592-tcp",
          "containerPort": 3592,
          "hostPort": 3592,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "appProtocol": "http"
        },
        {
          "name": "cerbos-3593-tcp",
          "containerPort": 3593,
          "hostPort": 3593,
          "protocol": "tcp"
        }
      ],
      "essential": true,
      "environment": [
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID",
          "value": "YOUR_CLIENT_ID" <1>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET",
          "value": "YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET" <2>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_WORKSPACE_SECRET",
          "value": "YOUR_WORKSPACE_SECRET" <3>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_BUNDLE",
          "value": "YOUR_LABEL" <4>
        }
      ],
      "command": [
        "server",
        "--set=audit.enabled=true", <5>
        "--set=audit.backend=hub",
        "--set=audit.hub.storagePath=/tmp"
      ], 
      "environmentFiles": [],
      "mountPoints": [],
      "volumesFrom": [],
      "ulimits": [],
      "healthCheck": {
        "command": [
            "CMD",
            "/cerbos",
            "healthcheck"
        ],
        "interval": 30,
        "timeout": 5,
        "retries": 3,
        "startPeriod": 5
      },
      "systemControls": []
    }
  ],
  "taskRoleArn": "TASK_ROLE_ARN", <6>
  "executionRoleArn": "TASK_EXECUTION_ROLE_ARN", <7>
  "networkMode": "awsvpc",
  "requiresCompatibilities": [
    "FARGATE"
  ],
  "cpu": "1024",
  "memory": "3072",
  "runtimePlatform": {
    "cpuArchitecture": "X86_64",
    "operatingSystemFamily": "LINUX"
  }
}
----
<1> Client ID from the Cerbos Hub credential
<2> Client secret from the Cerbos Hub credential
<3> Cerbos Hub workspace secret
<4> The label to watch for bundle updates. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:deployment-labels.adoc[deployment labels documentation] for details.
<5> Enables audit log collection. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:audit-log-collection.adoc[Hub audit log collection documentation] for information about masking sensitive fields and other advanced settings.
<6> The ARN for the custom ECS Task Role defined in Step 1.
<7> The ARN for the ECS Task Execution. The default is `arn:aws:iam::<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>:role/ecsTaskExecutionRole`

==== Step 4: Launch a service

Using the above task defintion, launch a service in your ECS Cluster. Take note to ensure the service is running attached to the security groups which your applications will be calling Cerbos from.


== Fly.io

You can deploy Cerbos on Fly.io as a link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly Launch] app. The following `fly.toml` file shows
how to deploy Cerbos with healthchecks and metrics:

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  image = 'ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}'

[[mounts]]
  source = 'policies'
  destination = '/policies'
  initial_size = '1GB'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a Fly.io link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]

The example above launches a Cerbos instance with the xref:configuration:index.adoc#minimal-configuration[minimal configuration] using an empty link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/volumes/[Fly volume] mounted as the policy directory. For production use cases, consider using one of the following methods for policy storage.

TIP: Your host or service for an application should be listening on the right address within the VM: Fly Proxy reaches services through a private IPv4 address on each VM, so the process should listen on `0.0.0.0:<port>` (link:https://fly.io/docs/networking/app-services/#a-note-on-ipv4-and-ipv6-wildcards[but see A note on IPv4 and IPv6 wildcards]).

- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#git-driver[`git` driver] with a Git provider such as GitHub or GitLab
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#blob-driver[`blob` driver] with link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris/#create-and-manage-a-tigris-storage-bucket[Tigris]
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#sqlite3[`sqlite3` driver] with a standalone SQLite database or link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/#litefs-cloud[LiteFS]
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#postgres[`postgres` driver] with link:https://fly.io/docs/postgres/[Fly Postgres]
- link:https://www.cerbos.dev/product-cerbos-hub[Cerbos Hub]


TIP: Cerbos can be xref:configuration:index.adoc[configured entirely from the command line] using `--set` flags. On the Fly.io platform, they can be set by overriding the `cmd` setting in the link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#the-experimental-section[`experimental` section] of the `fly.toml` file.

=== Using Tigris as a policy repository

Cerbos `blob` driver can be used with any S3-compatible blob storage backend such as link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris[Tigris].


Create a storage bucket on Tigris. Refer to https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris/#create-and-manage-a-tigris-storage-bucket for more information about creating storage buckets.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl storage create
----

Note down the credentials for accessing the bucket and save them as application secrets.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl apps create <APPLICATION_NAME> <1>
flyctl secrets set --app=<APPLICATION_NAME> AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=tid_XXXXXX <2>
flyctl secrets set --app=<APPLICATION_NAME> AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=tsec_XXXXXX <3>
----
<1> Your application name on Fly.io
<2> Tigris key ID
<3> Tigris secret access key


Create a `fly.toml` file.

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  image = 'ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}'

[experimental]
  cmd = [
    'server',
    '--set', 'storage.driver=blob',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.bucket=s3://<BUCKET_NAME>?endpoint=fly.storage.tigris.dev&region=auto', <3>
    '--set', 'storage.blob.downloadTimeout=30s',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.prefix=policies',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.updatePollInterval=15s',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.workDir=/policies'
  ]

[[mounts]]
  source = 'policies'
  destination = '/policies'
  initial_size = '1GB'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592
  auto_stop_machines = true

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593
  auto_stop_machines = true

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a Fly.io link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]
<3> Storage bucket name

Deploy the app.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl deploy
----

=== Using LiteFS as a policy repository

Fly.io's distributed SQLite storage layer link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs[LiteFS] can be used for policy storage using
Cerbos' `sqlite3` driver.

Start by creating an app on Fly.io.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl apps create <APPLICATION_NAME>
----

Create a LiteFS configuration file named `litefs.yml`.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
data:
  dir: "/var/lib/litefs"

exec:
  - cmd: "/cerbos server --set=storage.driver=sqlite3 --set=storage.sqlite3.dsn=file:/litefs/db --set=server.adminAPI.enabled=true --set=server.adminAPI.adminCredentials.username=$CERBOS_ADMIN_USER --set=server.adminAPI.adminCredentials.passwordHash=$CERBOS_ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH"

exit-on-error: false

fuse:
  dir: "/litefs"

lease:
  advertise-url: "http://${FLY_ALLOC_ID}.vm.${FLY_APP_NAME}.internal:20202"
  candidate: ${FLY_REGION == PRIMARY_REGION}
  consul:
    url: "${FLY_CONSUL_URL}"
    key: "${FLY_APP_NAME}/primary"
  promote: true
  type: "consul"
----

TIP: Refer to link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/getting-started-docker/#configuring-litefs[Configuring LiteFS] documentation for other available configuration parameters.


Create a Dockerfile.

[source,Dockerfile,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM flyio/litefs:0.5 AS litefs

FROM ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version} AS cerbos

FROM alpine:3.16 AS base
RUN apk add fuse3 sqlite
ADD litefs.yml /etc/litefs.yml
COPY --from=cerbos /cerbos /cerbos
COPY --from=litefs /usr/local/bin/litefs /usr/local/bin/litefs

ENTRYPOINT ["litefs"]
CMD ["mount"]
----

Create a `fly.toml` file to launch Cerbos.

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  dockerfile = "Dockerfile"

[mounts]
  source = "litefs"
  destination = "/var/lib/litefs" <3>

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]
<3> Destination must be equal to the one specified in the `litefs.yaml`


Create secrets to hold Cerbos Admin API credentials. Refer to xref:configuration:server.adoc#password-hash[password hash generation instructions] to learn how to generate the password hash.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl secrets set CERBOS_ADMIN_USER=<ADMIN_USER_NAME>
flyctl secrets set CERBOS_ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH=<ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH>
----

Attach to Consul to manage LiteFS leases.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl consul attach
----

TIP: See link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/getting-started-fly/#lease-configuration[lease configuration] for more information about Consul leases on Fly.io.

Finally, deploy Cerbos.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl deploy
----

You can interact with the Cerbos xref:api:admin_api.adoc[Admin API] using one of the Cerbos SDKs or the xref:cli:cerbosctl.adoc[`cerbosctl`] utility to manage the policies stored on LiteFS.

.List policies with cerbosctl
[source,bash,linenums]
----
cerbosctl \
  --server=<APPLICATION_NAME>.fly.dev:3593 \
  --username=<ADMIN_USER_NAME> \
  --password=<ADMIN_PASSWORD> \
  get rp

----

.Put a policy or a directory consisting of multiple policies with cerbosctl
[source,bash,linenums]
----
cerbosctl \
  --server=<APPLICATION_NAME>.fly.dev:3593 \
  --username=<ADMIN_USER_NAME> \
  --password=<ADMIN_PASSWORD> \
  put policies -R \
  policy_dir
----

Commit message:

docs(backport): Reference payment via AWS Marketplace (#2322) (#2323)
Updates to AWS Marketplace documentation.

---------

#### Description

<!-- Thank you for contributing Cerbos! Please describe the changes made
in this PR here and provide any other useful information for reviewers.
Make sure that you included some automated tests (e.g unit tests) to
verify your changes. If there is a requirement for user input for
testing, please include the instructions as well. -->

Fixes #<!-- Link the relevant issue here -->

#### Checklist 

<!-- See
https://github.com/cerbos/cerbos/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#submitting-pull-requests
for more information. -->

- [ ] The PR title has the correct prefix 
- [ ] PR is linked to the corresponding issue
- [ ] All commits are signed-off (`git commit -s ...`) to provide the
[DCO](https://developercertificate.org/)

Signed-off-by: Alex Olivier <alex@alexolivier.me>
Co-authored-by: Charith Ellawala <charithe@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/deployment/pages/cloud-platforms.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Deploy Cerbos to Cloud platforms

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]

== AWS Marketplace

Cerbos is avaliable via the link:https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/prodview-6kkahbtwv3gtq[AWS Marketplace] and can be deployed in either link:https://aws.amazon.com/eks/[Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)] or link:https://aws.amazon.com/ecs/[Elastic Container Service (ECS)]. When deploying Cerbos via the Marketplace, your Cerbos Hub account is included with the purchase via AWS and no additional paid account is required.

=== Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)

==== Step 1: Create an IAM policy
To deploy Cerbos from AWS Marketplace, you need to assign an IAM policy with appropriate IAM permission to a Kubernetes service account before starting the deployment. You can either use AWS managed policy `arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage` or create your own IAM policy.

Here's an example IAM policy:

[source,json]
----
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Step 2: Create an IAM role for the Kubernetes service account (IRSA)

Once the IAM role has been created, a Kubernetes service account needs to be created and assicated with the role. We recommend doing this via link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/eksctl.html[eksctl]. The command below automates the process to:

1. Create an IAM role with AWS-managed IAM policy (or you can provide your own ARN).
2. Create a Kubernetes service account name `cerbos-serviceaccount` in the cluster.
3. Set up a trust relationship between the IAM role and the service account.
4. Modify `cerbos-serviceaccount` annotation to associate it with the created IAM role

Remember to replace `CLUSTER_NAME` with your actual Amazon EKS cluster name and optionally set the namespace.

[source,sh]
----
eksctl create iamserviceaccount \
    --name cerbos-serviceaccount \
    --attach-policy-arn arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage \
    --namespace default \
    --cluster CLUSTER_NAME \
    --approve \
    --override-existing-serviceaccounts
----

==== Step 4: Deploy Cerbos with the service account

include::ROOT:partial$try-cerbos-hub.adoc[]

For the following steps, you need a Cerbos Hub account with a workspace connected to your policy repository and a set of client credentials. See the xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:getting-started.adoc[Cerbos Hub getting started guide] for details.


* Create a new Kubernetes secret to hold the Cerbos Hub credentials - see the xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:getting-started.adoc[Cerbos Hub guide] for details.
+
[source,sh]
----
kubectl create secret generic cerbos-hub-credentials \
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID=YOUR_CLIENT_ID \ <1>
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET=YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET \ <2>
   --from-literal=CERBOS_HUB_WORKSPACE_SECRET=YOUR_WORKSPACE_SECRET <3>
----
<1> Client ID from the Cerbos Hub credential
<2> Client secret from the Cerbos Hub credential
<3> Cerbos Hub workspace secret

* Create a new values file named `hub-values.yaml` with the following contents:
+
[source,yaml,linenums,subs="attributes"]
----
# Use the AWS Marketplace image
image:
  repository: {app-aws-registry}

# Assign the service account
serviceAccount:
  name: cerbos-serviceaccount

# Set Cerbos configuration
cerbos:
  config:
    # Configure the Hub storage driver
    storage:
      driver: "hub"
      # Configure deployment label. Alternatively, add `CERBOS_HUB_BUNDLE=<YOUR_LABEL>` to the secret you created above.
      hub:
        remote:
          bundleLabel: "YOUR_LABEL" <1>

    # Configure the Hub audit backend
    audit:
      enabled: true <2>
      backend: "hub"
      hub:
        storagePath: /audit_logs

# Create environment variables from the secret.
envFrom:
  - secretRef:
      name: cerbos-hub-credentials

# Mount volume for locally buffering the audit logs. A persistent volume is recommended for production use cases.
volumes:
  - name: cerbos-audit-logs
    emptyDir: {}

volumeMounts:
  - name: cerbos-audit-logs
    mountPath: /audit_logs
----
<1> The label to watch for bundle updates. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:deployment-labels.adoc[deployment labels documentation] for details.
<2> Enables audit log collection. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:audit-log-collection.adoc[Hub audit log collection documentation] for information about masking sensitive fields and other advanced settings.

* Deploy Cerbos using the Helm chart
+
[source,sh,subs="attributes"]
----
helm install cerbos cerbos/cerbos --version={app-version} --values=hub-values.yaml
----

=== Elastic Container Service (ECS)

==== Step 1: Create ECS Task Role policy
To deploy Cerbos from AWS Marketplace, you need to create an ECS Task AIM Role with appropriate IAM permission before starting the deployment. You can either use AWS managed policy `arn:aws:iam::aws:policy/AWSMarketplaceMeteringRegisterUsage` or create your own IAM policy.

Here's an example IAM policy required - you will need the ARN for this role when defining the task.

[source,json]
----
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
          "aws-marketplace:RegisterUsage"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
----

==== Step 2: Create the task definition

In the AWS console or the CLI, create the task using the following JSON definition, subsituting the values noted:

[source,json,subs="attributes"]
----
{
  "family": "cerbos",
  "containerDefinitions": [
    {
      "name": "cerbos",
      "image": "{app-aws-img}",
      "cpu": 0,
      "portMappings": [
        {
          "name": "cerbos-3592-tcp",
          "containerPort": 3592,
          "hostPort": 3592,
          "protocol": "tcp",
          "appProtocol": "http"
        },
        {
          "name": "cerbos-3593-tcp",
          "containerPort": 3593,
          "hostPort": 3593,
          "protocol": "tcp"
        }
      ],
      "essential": true,
      "environment": [
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID",
          "value": "YOUR_CLIENT_ID" <1>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET",
          "value": "YOUR_CLIENT_SECRET" <2>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_WORKSPACE_SECRET",
          "value": "YOUR_WORKSPACE_SECRET" <3>
        },
        {
          "name": "CERBOS_HUB_BUNDLE",
          "value": "YOUR_LABEL" <4>
        }
      ],
      "command": [
        "server",
        "--set=audit.enabled=true", <5>
        "--set=audit.backend=hub",
        "--set=audit.hub.storagePath=/tmp"
      ], 
      "environmentFiles": [],
      "mountPoints": [],
      "volumesFrom": [],
      "ulimits": [],
      "healthCheck": {
        "command": [
            "CMD",
            "/cerbos",
            "healthcheck"
        ],
        "interval": 30,
        "timeout": 5,
        "retries": 3,
        "startPeriod": 5
      },
      "systemControls": []
    }
  ],
  "taskRoleArn": "TASK_ROLE_ARN", <6>
  "executionRoleArn": "TASK_EXECUTION_ROLE_ARN", <7>
  "networkMode": "awsvpc",
  "requiresCompatibilities": [
    "FARGATE"
  ],
  "cpu": "1024",
  "memory": "3072",
  "runtimePlatform": {
    "cpuArchitecture": "X86_64",
    "operatingSystemFamily": "LINUX"
  }
}
----
<1> Client ID from the Cerbos Hub credential
<2> Client secret from the Cerbos Hub credential
<3> Cerbos Hub workspace secret
<4> The label to watch for bundle updates. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:deployment-labels.adoc[deployment labels documentation] for details.
<5> Enables audit log collection. See xref:cerbos-hub:ROOT:audit-log-collection.adoc[Hub audit log collection documentation] for information about masking sensitive fields and other advanced settings.
<6> The ARN for the custom ECS Task Role defined in Step 1.
<7> The ARN for the ECS Task Execution. The default is `arn:aws:iam::<AWS_ACCOUNT_ID>:role/ecsTaskExecutionRole`

==== Step 4: Launch a service

Using the above task defintion, launch a service in your ECS Cluster. Take note to ensure the service is running attached to the security groups which your applications will be calling Cerbos from.


== Fly.io

You can deploy Cerbos on Fly.io as a link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly Launch] app. The following `fly.toml` file shows
how to deploy Cerbos with healthchecks and metrics:

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  image = 'ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}'

[[mounts]]
  source = 'policies'
  destination = '/policies'
  initial_size = '1GB'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a Fly.io link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]

The example above launches a Cerbos instance with the xref:configuration:index.adoc#minimal-configuration[minimal configuration] using an empty link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/volumes/[Fly volume] mounted as the policy directory. For production use cases, consider using one of the following methods for policy storage.

TIP: Your host or service for an application should be listening on the right address within the VM: Fly Proxy reaches services through a private IPv4 address on each VM, so the process should listen on `0.0.0.0:<port>` (link:https://fly.io/docs/networking/app-services/#a-note-on-ipv4-and-ipv6-wildcards[but see A note on IPv4 and IPv6 wildcards]).

- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#git-driver[`git` driver] with a Git provider such as GitHub or GitLab
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#blob-driver[`blob` driver] with link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris/#create-and-manage-a-tigris-storage-bucket[Tigris]
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#sqlite3[`sqlite3` driver] with a standalone SQLite database or link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/#litefs-cloud[LiteFS]
- Cerbos xref:configuration:storage.adoc#postgres[`postgres` driver] with link:https://fly.io/docs/postgres/[Fly Postgres]
- link:https://www.cerbos.dev/product-cerbos-hub[Cerbos Hub]


TIP: Cerbos can be xref:configuration:index.adoc[configured entirely from the command line] using `--set` flags. On the Fly.io platform, they can be set by overriding the `cmd` setting in the link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/configuration/#the-experimental-section[`experimental` section] of the `fly.toml` file.

=== Using Tigris as a policy repository

Cerbos `blob` driver can be used with any S3-compatible blob storage backend such as link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris[Tigris].


Create a storage bucket on Tigris. Refer to https://fly.io/docs/reference/tigris/#create-and-manage-a-tigris-storage-bucket for more information about creating storage buckets.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl storage create
----

Note down the credentials for accessing the bucket and save them as application secrets.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl apps create <APPLICATION_NAME> <1>
flyctl secrets set --app=<APPLICATION_NAME> AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=tid_XXXXXX <2>
flyctl secrets set --app=<APPLICATION_NAME> AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=tsec_XXXXXX <3>
----
<1> Your application name on Fly.io
<2> Tigris key ID
<3> Tigris secret access key


Create a `fly.toml` file.

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  image = 'ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version}'

[experimental]
  cmd = [
    'server',
    '--set', 'storage.driver=blob',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.bucket=s3://<BUCKET_NAME>?endpoint=fly.storage.tigris.dev&region=auto', <3>
    '--set', 'storage.blob.downloadTimeout=30s',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.prefix=policies',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.updatePollInterval=15s',
    '--set', 'storage.blob.workDir=/policies'
  ]

[[mounts]]
  source = 'policies'
  destination = '/policies'
  initial_size = '1GB'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592
  auto_stop_machines = true

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593
  auto_stop_machines = true

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a Fly.io link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]
<3> Storage bucket name

Deploy the app.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl deploy
----

=== Using LiteFS as a policy repository

Fly.io's distributed SQLite storage layer link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs[LiteFS] can be used for policy storage using
Cerbos' `sqlite3` driver.

Start by creating an app on Fly.io.

[source,bash,linenums]
----
flyctl apps create <APPLICATION_NAME>
----

Create a LiteFS configuration file named `litefs.yml`.

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
data:
  dir: "/var/lib/litefs"

exec:
  - cmd: "/cerbos server --set=storage.driver=sqlite3 --set=storage.sqlite3.dsn=file:/litefs/db --set=server.adminAPI.enabled=true --set=server.adminAPI.adminCredentials.username=$CERBOS_ADMIN_USER --set=server.adminAPI.adminCredentials.passwordHash=$CERBOS_ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH"

exit-on-error: false

fuse:
  dir: "/litefs"

lease:
  advertise-url: "http://${FLY_ALLOC_ID}.vm.${FLY_APP_NAME}.internal:20202"
  candidate: ${FLY_REGION == PRIMARY_REGION}
  consul:
    url: "${FLY_CONSUL_URL}"
    key: "${FLY_APP_NAME}/primary"
  promote: true
  type: "consul"
----

TIP: Refer to link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/getting-started-docker/#configuring-litefs[Configuring LiteFS] documentation for other available configuration parameters.


Create a Dockerfile.

[source,Dockerfile,subs="attributes+"]
----
FROM flyio/litefs:0.5 AS litefs

FROM ghcr.io/cerbos/cerbos:{app-version} AS cerbos

FROM alpine:3.16 AS base
RUN apk add fuse3 sqlite
ADD litefs.yml /etc/litefs.yml
COPY --from=cerbos /cerbos /cerbos
COPY --from=litefs /usr/local/bin/litefs /usr/local/bin/litefs

ENTRYPOINT ["litefs"]
CMD ["mount"]
----

Create a `fly.toml` file to launch Cerbos.

[source,toml,linenums,subs="attributes+"]
----
app = '<APPLICATION_NAME>' <1>
primary_region = '<REGION>' <2>

[build]
  dockerfile = "Dockerfile"

[mounts]
  source = "litefs"
  destination = "/var/lib/litefs" <3>

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3592

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3592
    handlers = ['tls', 'http']

[[services.http_checks]]
    interval = '5s'
    timeout = '2s'
    grace_period = '5s'
    method = 'get'
    path = '/_cerbos/health'
    protocol = 'http'

[[services]]
  protocol = ''
  internal_port = 3593

[[services.ports]]
    port = 3593
    handlers = ['tls']

    [services.ports.tls_options]
      alpn = ['h2']

[[vm]]
  memory = '1gb'
  cpu_kind = 'shared'
  cpus = 1

[metrics]
  port = 3592
  path = "/_cerbos/metrics"
----
<1> The name of the link:https://fly.io/docs/apps[Fly App]
<2> Pick a link:https://fly.io/docs/reference/regions/#fly-io-regions[region]
<3> Destination must be equal to the one specified in the `litefs.yaml`


Create secrets to hold Cerbos Admin API credentials. Refer to xref:configuration:server.adoc#password-hash[password hash generation instructions] to learn how to generate the password hash.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl secrets set CERBOS_ADMIN_USER=<ADMIN_USER_NAME>
flyctl secrets set CERBOS_ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH=<ADMIN_PASSWORD_HASH>
----

Attach to Consul to manage LiteFS leases.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl consul attach
----

TIP: See link:https://fly.io/docs/litefs/getting-started-fly/#lease-configuration[lease configuration] for more information about Consul leases on Fly.io.

Finally, deploy Cerbos.

[source,bash]
----
flyctl deploy
----

You can interact with the Cerbos xref:api:admin_api.adoc[Admin API] using one of the Cerbos SDKs or the xref:cli:cerbosctl.adoc[`cerbosctl`] utility to manage the policies stored on LiteFS.

.List policies with cerbosctl
[source,bash,linenums]
----
cerbosctl \
  --server=<APPLICATION_NAME>.fly.dev:3593 \
  --username=<ADMIN_USER_NAME> \
  --password=<ADMIN_PASSWORD> \
  get rp

----

.Put a policy or a directory consisting of multiple policies with cerbosctl
[source,bash,linenums]
----
cerbosctl \
  --server=<APPLICATION_NAME>.fly.dev:3593 \
  --username=<ADMIN_USER_NAME> \
  --password=<ADMIN_PASSWORD> \
  put policies -R \
  policy_dir
----
