docs/modules/deployment/pages/serverless-faas.adoc, before:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Deploy Cerbos to Serverless/FaaS environments

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


[#aws-lambda]
== AWS Lambda

[NOTE]
====
Cerbos is a CPU-bound application. On AWS Lambda environments CPU is not individually configurable and is determined as a function of allocated memory (see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-memory.html[Configure Lambda function memory]). If you're experiencing slow response times from Cerbos, increase the memory allocation. Even though neither Cerbos nor your code requires a lot of memory, the architecture of AWS Lambda forces this counter-intuitive tuning advice.

Because each application is different, we can't provide any recommendations. Monitor your application and tune the memory allocation until the performance is satisfactory for your needs.
====

Cerbos provides two deployment options for AWS Lambda:

=== Cerbos Lambda Function

Deploy Cerbos as a standalone AWS Lambda function that handles authorization requests directly. This deployment pattern is suitable for centralized authorization services.

Download the specially-built `cerbosfunc` binary from the link:{app-github-releases-page}[releases page], which can be deployed as either a Zip package or a container image.

Deploying as a zip package requires renaming the downloaded `cerbosfunc` binary to `bootstrap` and creating a zip file with it at the root. See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/golang-package.html[Deploy Go Lambda functions with .zip file archives] for more information.

.Lambda Function deployment with a zip package
[source,shell,linenums]
----
mkdir -p dist
mv cerbosfunc dist/bootstrap
sam deploy --template sam.yml --stack-name ${CERBOS_STACK_NAME:-Cerbos} --resolve-s3 \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --no-confirm-changeset --no-fail-on-empty-changeset
----

.SAM template for Lambda Function deployment with a zip package

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
---

AWSTemplateFormatVersion: '2010-09-09'
Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
Description: Cerbos Lambda Function

Globals:
  Function:
    Timeout: 5

Resources:
  CerbosFunction:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
    Properties:
      Runtime: provided.al2
      CodeUri: dist/
      Handler: bootstrap <1>
      Architectures:
        - arm64
      MemorySize: 1024
      Events:
        CheckResources:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /api/check/resources
            Method: POST
        PlanResources:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /api/plan/resources
            Method: POST
        HealthCheck:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /
            Method: GET
      Environment:
        Variables:
          CERBOS_LOG_LEVEL: debug
          XDG_CACHE_HOME: /tmp
          CERBOS_CONFIG: /.cerbos.yaml

Outputs:
  CerbosFunctionAPI:
    Description: "API Gateway endpoint URL for Cerbos Function"
    Value: !Sub "https://${ServerlessHttpApi}.execute-api.${AWS::Region}.amazonaws.com"
  CerbosFunction:
    Description: "Cerbos Lambda Function ARN"
    Value: !GetAtt CerbosFunction.Arn
  CerbosFunctionIamRole:
    Description: "IAM Role created for the Cerbos Lambda function"
    Value: !GetAtt CerbosFunctionRole.Arn
----
<1> The `cerbosfunc` binary should be renamed to (or hard-linked as) `bootstrap` as per AWS Lambda guidelines for Go binaries.

To deploy as a container, build an image using a Dockerfile similar to the following:

[source,dockerfile,linenums]
----
FROM public.ecr.aws/lambda/provided:al2023
COPY cerbosfunc /cerbosfunc
ENTRYPOINT [ "/cerbosfunc" ]
----

See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/go-image.html[Deploy Go Lambda functions with container images] for more information.

=== Cerbos Lambda Extension (Layer)

Lambda function deployed as a Zip package can have up to five layers. Primary use case for link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/chapter-layers.html[layers] is managing dependencies and configurations.
Additionally, a layer can be used to deploy a Lambda function link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-extensions.html[extension].
Deploying Cerbos PDP as a Lambda extension allows it to run on the same host with your application function. This deployment pattern is similar to a sidecar deployment.

Download the specially-built `cerbosext` binary from the link:{app-github-releases-page}[releases page], which can be deployed as a Zip layer.
The (extension) layer then can be attached to your AWS Lambda function, if it is deployed as a Zip package. See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/adding-layers.html[adding layers] for more information.

.Lambda Extension deployment
[source,shell,linenums]
----
mkdir -p layer/extensions
mv cerbosext layer/extensions/
sam deploy --template sam.yml --stack-name ${CERBOS_STACK_NAME:-Cerbos} --resolve-s3 \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --no-confirm-changeset --no-fail-on-empty-changeset
----

.SAM template for Lambda Extension deployment
[source,yaml,linenums]
----
---

AWSTemplateFormatVersion: '2010-09-09'
Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
Description: Cerbos server

Globals:
  Function:
    Timeout: 5

Resources:
  CerbosExtensionLayer:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion
    Properties:
      LayerName: cerbos-extension
      Description: Cerbos extension layer
      ContentUri: ./layer <1>
      CompatibleRuntimes:
        - provided.al2
        - provided.al2023
      CompatibleArchitectures:
        - arm64

Outputs:
  CerbosExtensionLayerArn:
    Description: "Cerbos Extension Layer ARN"
    Value: !Ref CerbosExtensionLayer
----
<1> Layer is a directory containing the `cerbosext` binary

=== Configuration

[NOTE]
====
Cerbos Lambda extension overrides `server.httpListenAddr` and `server.grpcListenAddr` to  "unix:/tmp/cerbos.http.sock" and "unix:/tmp/cerbos.grpc.sock" respectively.
====

The Cerbos function/extension can be configured with environment variables.
[source,yaml,linenum]
----
CERBOS_LOG_LEVEL: info
XDG_CACHE_HOME: /tmp
CERBOS_CONFIG: "..." <1>
----
<1> Path to the Cerbos configuration file

Set the following environment variables to connect to link:https://www.cerbos.dev/product-cerbos-hub[Cerbos Hub].
[source,yaml,linenum]
----
CERBOS_HUB_DEPLOYMENT_ID: "..."
CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID: "..."
CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET: ".."
----

=== Comparison: Function vs Extension

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Aspect |Lambda Function |Lambda Extension

|**Deployment Pattern**
|Centralized service
|Sidecar pattern

|**Resource Sharing**
|Dedicated Lambda execution
|Shares execution with application function

|**Cold Start**
|Independent cold start
|Shared cold start with application

|**Network Overhead**
|API Gateway + Lambda runtime
|Direct process communication

|**Use Case**
|Central authorization service
|Embedded authorization for specific functions

|**Scaling**
|Independent scaling
|Scales with application function
|===

Both deployment options use AWS SAM (Serverless Application Model) templates for easy deployment and include example configurations for policies, logging, and API Gateway integration.

Commit message:

chore(ci): Fix release workflow, rename cerbosfunc, update lambda docs (#2748)
Signed-off-by: Dennis Buduev <dbuduev@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Dennis Buduev <dbuduev@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/modules/deployment/pages/serverless-faas.adoc, after:

include::ROOT:partial$attributes.adoc[]

= Deploy Cerbos to Serverless/FaaS environments

include::ROOT:partial$version-check.adoc[]


[#aws-lambda]
== AWS Lambda

[NOTE]
====
Cerbos is a CPU-bound application. On AWS Lambda environments CPU is not individually configurable and is determined as a function of allocated memory (see link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-memory.html[Configure Lambda function memory]). If you're experiencing slow response times from Cerbos, increase the memory allocation. Even though neither Cerbos nor your code requires a lot of memory, the architecture of AWS Lambda forces this counter-intuitive tuning advice.

Because each application is different, we can't provide any recommendations. Monitor your application and tune the memory allocation until the performance is satisfactory for your needs.
====

Cerbos provides two deployment options for AWS Lambda:

=== Cerbos Lambda Function

Deploy Cerbos as a standalone AWS Lambda function that handles authorization requests directly. This deployment pattern is suitable for centralized authorization services.


Download the appropriate `cerbos_aws_lambda_func` tarball from the link:{app-github-releases-page}[releases page]. It contains a specially-built binary named `bootstrap` that can be deployed as either a Zip package or a container image.

Deploying it as a zip package requires creating a zip file with the `bootstrap` binary at the root. See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/golang-package.html[Deploy Go Lambda functions with .zip file archives] for more information.

.Lambda Function deployment with a zip package
[source,shell,linenums]
----
mkdir -p dist
sam deploy --template sam.yml --stack-name ${CERBOS_STACK_NAME:-Cerbos} --resolve-s3 \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --no-confirm-changeset --no-fail-on-empty-changeset
----

.SAM template for Lambda Function deployment with a zip package

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
---

AWSTemplateFormatVersion: '2010-09-09'
Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
Description: Cerbos Lambda Function

Globals:
  Function:
    Timeout: 5

Resources:
  CerbosFunction:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
    Properties:
      Runtime: provided.al2
      CodeUri: dist/
      Handler: bootstrap
      Architectures:
        - arm64
      MemorySize: 1024
      Events:
        CheckResources:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /api/check/resources
            Method: POST
        PlanResources:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /api/plan/resources
            Method: POST
        HealthCheck:
          Type: HttpApi
          Properties:
            Path: /
            Method: GET
      Environment:
        Variables:
          CERBOS_LOG_LEVEL: debug
          XDG_CACHE_HOME: /tmp
          CERBOS_CONFIG: /.cerbos.yaml

Outputs:
  CerbosFunctionAPI:
    Description: "API Gateway endpoint URL for Cerbos Function"
    Value: !Sub "https://${ServerlessHttpApi}.execute-api.${AWS::Region}.amazonaws.com"
  CerbosFunction:
    Description: "Cerbos Lambda Function ARN"
    Value: !GetAtt CerbosFunction.Arn
  CerbosFunctionIamRole:
    Description: "IAM Role created for the Cerbos Lambda function"
    Value: !GetAtt CerbosFunctionRole.Arn
----

To deploy as a container, build an image using a Dockerfile similar to the following:

[source,dockerfile,linenums]
----
FROM public.ecr.aws/lambda/provided:al2023
COPY bootstrap /bootstrap
ENTRYPOINT [ "/bootstrap" ]
----

See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/go-image.html[Deploy Go Lambda functions with container images] for more information.

=== Cerbos Lambda Extension (Layer)

Lambda function deployed as a Zip package can have up to five layers. Primary use case for link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/chapter-layers.html[layers] is managing dependencies and configurations.
Additionally, a layer can be used to deploy a Lambda function link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-extensions.html[extension].
Deploying Cerbos PDP as a Lambda extension allows it to run on the same host with your application function. This deployment pattern is similar to a sidecar deployment.

Download the appropriate `cerbos_aws_lamba_ext` tarball from the link:{app-github-releases-page}[releases page]. It contains a specially-built `cerbosext` binary that can be deployed as a Zip layer.
The (extension) layer then can be attached to your AWS Lambda function, if it is deployed as a Zip package. See link:https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/adding-layers.html[adding layers] for more information.

.Lambda Extension deployment
[source,shell,linenums]
----
mkdir -p layer/extensions
mv cerbosext layer/extensions/
sam deploy --template sam.yml --stack-name ${CERBOS_STACK_NAME:-Cerbos} --resolve-s3 \
    --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM --no-confirm-changeset --no-fail-on-empty-changeset
----

.SAM template for Lambda Extension deployment
[source,yaml,linenums]
----
---

AWSTemplateFormatVersion: '2010-09-09'
Transform: AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31
Description: Cerbos server

Globals:
  Function:
    Timeout: 5

Resources:
  CerbosExtensionLayer:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion
    Properties:
      LayerName: cerbos-extension
      Description: Cerbos extension layer
      ContentUri: ./layer <1>
      CompatibleRuntimes:
        - provided.al2
        - provided.al2023
      CompatibleArchitectures:
        - arm64

Outputs:
  CerbosExtensionLayerArn:
    Description: "Cerbos Extension Layer ARN"
    Value: !Ref CerbosExtensionLayer
----
<1> Layer is a directory containing the `cerbosext` binary

=== Configuration

[NOTE]
====
Cerbos Lambda extension overrides `server.httpListenAddr` and `server.grpcListenAddr` to  "unix:/tmp/cerbos.http.sock" and "unix:/tmp/cerbos.grpc.sock" respectively.
====

The Cerbos function/extension can be configured with environment variables.
[source,yaml,linenum]
----
CERBOS_LOG_LEVEL: info
XDG_CACHE_HOME: /tmp
CERBOS_CONFIG: "..." <1>
----
<1> Path to the Cerbos configuration file

Set the following environment variables to connect to link:https://www.cerbos.dev/product-cerbos-hub[Cerbos Hub].
[source,yaml,linenum]
----
CERBOS_HUB_DEPLOYMENT_ID: "..."
CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_ID: "..."
CERBOS_HUB_CLIENT_SECRET: ".."
----

=== Comparison: Function vs Extension

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
|Aspect |Lambda Function |Lambda Extension

|**Deployment Pattern**
|Centralized service
|Sidecar pattern

|**Resource Sharing**
|Dedicated Lambda execution
|Shares execution with application function

|**Cold Start**
|Independent cold start
|Shared cold start with application

|**Network Overhead**
|API Gateway + Lambda runtime
|Direct process communication

|**Use Case**
|Central authorization service
|Embedded authorization for specific functions

|**Scaling**
|Independent scaling
|Scales with application function
|===

Both deployment options use AWS SAM (Serverless Application Model) templates for easy deployment and include example configurations for policies, logging, and API Gateway integration.
